## Replication
### What is Replication?
In distributed systems achieving scalability, availability and performance is really challenging. Replication is one of 
the ways to achieve this.

Replication is nothing but replicating the same data in multiple nodes to achieve scalability, availability and 
performance. If you have only read operations performing on the data the replication is not complex. But when you have write operations then replication becomes complex.

There are two ways to replicate the data 
1. Synchronous replication 
2. Asynchronous replication.

### Synchronous replication
Primary node waits for the secondary node acknowledgement. After receiving the acknowledgement from all secondary nodes 
the primary node sends acknowledgement to the client.

#### Advantage
System makes sure that the write operation is replicated in all the servers. All secondary servers will be up to date 
and in the same state.

#### Disadvantage
If any one or more secondary servers are failed or facing the latency issue the write operation may take more time due 
to this client may receive acknowledgement with latency or he can assume the write operation is failed due to timeout.

### Asynchronous replication
Primary node sends the acknowledgement to the client once the data persisted in the primary server locally. It doesn't 
wait for the secondary node acknowledgement. Once the acknowledgement is sent to the primary node then the primary node 
tries to replicate the data in all secondary nodes.

#### Advantage
Clients will get a quicker response from the primary server. Primary servers can not be affected due to secondary servers.

#### Disadvantage
If the primary node fails the unreplicated date will be lost.

## Replication Models
### Single Leader / Primary-Secondary replication
In this model a node will be represented as a leader. Others are secondary nodes. Primary node only responsible for 
write requests and replicating the data in secondary nodes. All read requests are handled by the secondary node. If the primary server goes down one of the secondary servers is promoted as the primary server.

#### Advantages
1. It is good when you have more read operations compared to the write operation. We can add more secondary servers 
to counter the load on secondary servers.
2. It is read resilience even when the primary server down secondary servers can process the read request without any issue.
3. All read nodes are up no right conflicts since only one server is handling the write requests.

#### Disadvantages
1. Primary server can be overloaded if we have more number of write requests.
2. If the primary server goes down we may lose the data which needs to be replicated in secondary servers.
3. If the primary server goes down we can not write until the server recovers or any secondary server promoted as primary server.

### Multi leader replication
In this model We have multiple primary nodes. Multiple primary nodes can be leaders and can handle the write request. 
We can have multiple primary and secondary nodes.  Since we have multiple primary servers this model is complex and we may face data conflict or split brine issues. We should have good conflict resolution techniques based on our requirements.

#### Advantages
1. We can scale the write and read operation based on the load.
2. It resolves the single leader fail issue since we have multiple leaders.

#### Disadvantages
1. We can encounter conflicts when multiple leaders are trying to update the same resource. In that case we need to 
have conflict resolution techniques. Like quorums.

#### Handel Conflicts
Multiple leader replication can give good performance and can be scalable well. But it comes with complexity and can 
create conflicts between the leader nodes. We can resolve conflicts with different techniques based on the requirements.
There are two types of techniques.

1. Lazily conflict resolution
2. Eagerly conflict resolution

#### Expose conflict to the user
When we have a conflict we can return the multiple values to the user. So the user can decide which one he needs.

#### Last write wins
Each version will have the time stamp whichever the write is last we can consider.

#### Custom logic
We can have custom logic based on the requirements.

### Peer to Peer replication
In this model all nodes are considered as equals. Any node can handle write as well as read operations. This replication model is very complex and also we need technic like quorums to resolve the conflicts.

### Quorums
Let's suppose if you have three nodes at least a write operation needs to be committed in two nodes. 
Then we can read from two nodes then at least one node will have updated value.

If you are committing a write operation the at least **W** nodes should be updated and when you are reading the values 
from the nodes you must read from **R** nodes. **W + R > N** should be greater than **N**. **N** is the total number of nodes. 

