## How are SDIs different from other Interviews?
SDIs are involved with a much higher level of abstraction. We need to figure out the requirements and map them to the 
components. Then you need to come with a communication protocol that connects the sub systems.

In SDIs you may be asked about well known problems like design Whatsapp, Youtube, etc. It is not possible to design 
Whatsapp within 30 to 40 mins.

#### Step to flow to gather the requirements
    
1. **Solidify the requirements** - Should ask questions to solidify the requirements.
2. **Scope the requirements** - Need to scope the requirements because we can not design systems like Whatsapp within 
30 to 40 min. 
3. **Engage the Interviewer** - Keep talking to the interviewer to get more information about the problem. 
Communication with the interviewer is key in SDIs.

## How to Prepare for Success

### Ask Why a system works?
1. Learn popular systems like FB, Youtube. Whatsapp works. Ask questions about how it works. 
2. Learn why a particular component is used, for example why MongoDB instead of MySQL. 
3. Build the project and start from the scratch

### The right directions.
    
    We need to focus more on trade offs instead of internal mechanisms.
It doesn't help much if the discussion is around MSSQL or MySQL Because both are similar. Instead we can have discussed 
where the NoSQL or SQL can make a huge difference.

### Mock Interviews
Mock interviews are good to prepare SDIs. You can take or give SDIs. It give the real time SDIs experience. You can 
evaluate what went wrong and what worked for you.

## How to Perform Well

### Strategize, then divide and conquer
Step recommended to follow in SDIs
1. Ask refining questions
2. Handle data
3. Discuss on the components
4. Discuss on the trade offs

### Ask refining questions
You need to ask questions to understand the requirements. By asking questions you need to ensure that whether the 
problem that you are solving is right or not.

You need to identify the requirements. Both functional and nonfunctional requirements.

### Handle data
You need to understand the data characteristics and what kind of data we are going to store and process.

We need do ask some questions about the data that we are handling
1. What kind of data we are handling.
2. How much data we are having now. At which rate the data can be increased in feature.
3. How long you should store the data. Data privacy and policy
4. Are you going to process the data which is stored or before stored.
5. How is it going to consume the data?
6. Is it read heavy or write heavy?

### Discuss on the components
At some lave we need to discuss which component to use, where to use and how to communicate between these componentes.

Based on the data nature we need to decide whether we need to use SQL or NoSQL databases.

### Discuss on the trade offs
There is no good design or bad design. Every design has its own weaknesses. You should point out the weakness in your 
design and need to explain why and how we are going to tackle that or if it is intentionally to reduce the cost of something.
