## What is consistency?
In a distributed system consistency means many things. One is that each replica node has some data at a given time. 
The reads should get recent write value.

There is a difference between consistency in ACID and consistency in CAP theorem.
In ACID the foreign key indicates that if one row is deleted that all the corresponding rows must be deleted.

### There are two ends of the consistency
1. Weakest consistency model
2. Strongest consistency model

#### There are some models that lie between these ends. Which are described below.
1. Eventual consistency
2. Causal consistency
3. Sequential consistency
4. Linearizability

### Eventual consistency
Eventual consistency a weakest consistency model. It offers high availability. Eventual consistency does not need to 
follow the order. Eventual consistency guarantees that all the replica nodes eventually have the same state after 
finite time and when no writes are coming in.

**Example**: Domain Name System. When a change happens for DAS, IT no need to reflect instantaneously.

### Causal Consistency
It is stronger than the Eventual consistency. It works by categorizing the operations into dependent and independent.
All the dependent operations follow the order.

**Example**: Comments on Facebook. Each comment is dependent on the previous comments.

### Sequential Consistency
Sequential consistency is stronger than Causal consistency. Sequential Consistency preserves ordering specified by each
client's program. It doesn't guarantee instantaneous writes. May not guarantee the order sequence on a global level.

**Example**: For Example we care about the order of friend posts. We do not care about which of the friend post

### Linearizability
Linearizability is the strongest consistency. It always returns the latest written values for all the reads at the same 
time. If any read operation returns the latest value while committing the write operation, all the read operations 
should return the same value if the value did not change again.

**Example**: Updating the needs linearizability.

## The Spectrum of Failure Models
### Failure Models
    From 1 <--> 5 : Easy to deal with <--> Difficult to deal with
1. Fail-stop
2. Crash
3. Omission failures
4. Temporal failures
5. Byzantine failures

## Fail-stop
In this type of failure the system halts permanently. Other systems can detect this failure. The system failure does 
not cause any incorrect behaviour.

**Example:** System can halt due to hardware faults. But there was no inconsistency before this system stopped working.

## Crash
This type of failure is similar to fail-stop. The system halt silently and It create inconsistency before it halts.

Example: While performing a database operation if the system halts with any reason there is a chance of data partially 
stored or deleted.

## Omission Failure
This type of failure means a system can not receive or send the actions or messages. There are two types. If the system 
is not able to receive a request this is called receive omission failure. If a system is not able to respond to the 
request is send omission failure.

**Example:** Due to network issues the system may not send or receive a request.

## Temporal failures
This type of failure means a system response is not received within a time. The response of the request is too late.

**Example:** In distributed systems most of the time the system waits for the acknowledgment. Due to network issues the 
acknowledgment may not come within the time period. It may be too late. This case the system considers the request is failed.

## Byzantine failures
In this failure the system may not halt but it produces or communicates inconsistency or contradicting information to
the other systems.

**Example:** Due to some bad algorithms or bad design the system may not work as expected. 



